# Linux Text Editor
## Linux Text Editor vi

Vi is very the very famous text editor in the Linux. some of the reasons why it is so populare are 

It is available in almost all  Linux distributions

It requires very few resources

It works same across multiple distributions

There are two modes of VI editor

Command Mode

Insert Mode

### Command Mode

The VI editor opens in commands mode where it only understand commands
A user can move the cursor, cut, copy and paste text 
This mode also saves the changes made to the file
Commands are case sensitive

### Insert Mode
In this mode, a user can add text in the file.
You can switch mode from command mode to insert mode by pressing key  ‘i’
To move out of insert mode press Esc key


Create a new file /open an existing file

vi filename

Opens an existing file in the read-only mode

vi -R filename 


Let's create a file name.txt

`vi name.txt`{{execute}}

What you see is a command mode.

Now press 'i' and then you can see has changed its mode to insert mode. lets add some name here.

Tom

Andre

Donald

Now press Esc key and it will come out of insert mode. 

Now type :wq and it will save the file.

let's have a look at the file.

`cat name.txt`{{execute}}

### Getting Out of vi

First come to command mode by pressing Esc key.

Now there will be mainly two options 

1. Discard these changes

2. Save the file and its changes

##### Discard the changes

If you want to discard a change then type `:q` followed by return /enter key. You may get a warning. If you want to quite of vi without saving is then type `:q!`.This lets you exit vi without saving any of the changes.


##### Save the file and its changes

If you want to save the content then type `:wq` followed by enter key.Easiest way to save the changes and exit is `ZZ`.If you want to save the file with a particular name, you can do so by specifying it after `:w filename`

Example  - Save samplefile.txt as samplefile2.txt

come to command mode then     

`:w samplefile2.txt` followed by return key

then     `:q!`  followed by return key

#### Moving within a file

First come in command mode by press Esc key


