Opearting System Basics 1/11-Simple Backup Bash Shell Script.md, before:

# Simple Backup Bash Shell Script

## Backup Bash Shell Script

Let's develope a basic back up script, a routine work which we need to do every day or quite frequently.

We want to take back up of a directory including all files and sub directories. We will be using tar command for it.

Let's first create some files and sub-directories.


`dir`{{execute}}

`ls -l`{{execute}}

`mkdir user`{{execute}}

`touch backupfile1.txt`{{execute}}

`mkdir subdir1`{{execute}}

`mkdir backup`{{execute}}

`cd subdir1`{{execute}}

`touch backupfile2.txt`{{execute}}

`ls -l`{{execute}}

you should see you backupfile2.txt`{{execute}}

`cd ..`{{execute}}


So now we have few files and sub directories.

`vi backupscript.sh`{{execute}}

Now press i, then add folllowing command 

`#!/bin/bash`

`tar -czf ./backup/myhomebackup.tar.gz  .`

Now press Esc key and :wq , press enter.

Now you should have a file in backup directory.

`./backup/myhomebackup.tar.gz` will take bacup sub-directory with in current directory with file name myhomebackup.tar.gz 

`.` specify take backup of current directory in this example is i.e. \root\user

Commit message:

smalll update in file 11 and more info in file 13

Opearting System Basics 1/11-Simple Backup Bash Shell Script.md, after:

# Simple Backup Bash Shell Script

## Backup Bash Shell Script

Let's develope a basic back up script, a routine work which we need to do every day or quite frequently.

We want to take back up of a directory including all files and sub directories. We will be using tar command for it.

Let's first create some files and sub-directories.


`dir`{{execute}}

`ls -l`{{execute}}

`mkdir user`{{execute}}

`touch backupfile1.txt`{{execute}}

`mkdir subdir1`{{execute}}

`mkdir backup`{{execute}}

`cd subdir1`{{execute}}

`touch backupfile2.txt`{{execute}}

`ls -l`{{execute}}

you should see you backupfile2.txt`{{execute}}

`cd ..`{{execute}}


So now we have few files and sub directories.

`vi backupscript.sh`{{execute}}

Now press i, then add folllowing command 

`#!/bin/bash`{{execute}}

`tar -czf /root/user/backup/myhomebackup.tar.gz  /root/user`{{execute}}

Now press Esc key and :wq , press enter.

Now you should have a file in backup directory.

This may give an error -  

`tar: Removing leading `/' from member names` 

Ignore this error for timebeing.
